# User Analytics and Acceptance

Different metrics could be used to assess the data flows generated by the users. We'll discuss some of these metrics below.

- **User engagement**: It is really relevant to assess how engaging our app is for the user. This could be measured by keeping tack of the frequency at which the app is used or by counting the number of users over time. Is our app used on a daily routine or is it mostly used during exam periods ? The duration of these sessions could also be a relevant metric, as it can give us more information about the importance of the app on the habits of our users. 

- **Features relevance**: We also would like to assess which features are the most popular in our app. We could measure the number of times a feature is accessed by the user per session and for how long. This would allow us to determine what are the most used features (groups, chats,video calls, timers, calendars). What are the features that don't seem to interest people or that need improvements ? All these information could be very useful to define more precisely what we need to focus on as developers to make our app better. For example, it could indicate what unused features we should maybe remove or modify. Knowing the strengths of our app is also relevant for marketing strategies to highlight what is actually pertinent and interesting for the users.

- **Data usage and flow**: On the same topic as the previous point, we could measure how much data is created and through which functionalities. By knowing which data objects are more used, we can improve their managing in a more efficient way. It is also a good indication on which features people tend to use.

- **Conservation rate**: Another aspect we could look at is the conservation rate, meaning how many users are actually using the app after  downloading.

- **User satisfaction and ratings**: Listening to the users is always important to keep them happy and their opinions$ have a very significant impact to the success of the app. Ratings are usually available on the downloading platform (Google Play for example) and could be very useful to know what aspects of the app satisfy or not the users.

- **User retention**: This metric is particulary important for the survival of the app and expresses the lifetime value (LVT) of a single customer. This metric could be calculated as :  <br>
LVT = Subscription * Gross Margin * (1/chrun) <br>
Where Churn is the percentage of active customers that exit the subscription each month. Usually, to have a viable app, it is advised to have a LVT greater than 3 times the customer acquisition cost. This metric globally indicates how well the app is surviving, knowing the cost of attracting new users, the cost of them using the app and then leaving. For our app to be viable, we should keep track of the number of active users and the costs needed to keep them. On another side, it could also be relevant to ask the users why they leave/uninstall the app.

- **Customer acquisition cost (CAC)** : As mentionned before, the CAC can be an interesting metric to use as it regroups the internal cost (marketing, engineers, support costs) and the amount of customers acquired. It allows to have an idea of how much money is spent per new customer acquired.To have a viable app, it is advised to keep this CAC lower than the lifetime value (LVT).

## Success Criterias

There aren't juste one success criteria but multiple components of it.

As seen in the course, a successful app should preferably be able to:
- acquire customers
- retain customers
- monetize customers via subscriptions

By fulfilling these criterias, we can ensure that the app keeps its activate customers, while still being interesting and relevant enough to bring new customers. In addition, having the monetization ensures an income for the development team. With all these criterias met, the app could probably continue to survive for a long time since students will always exist. 

However, other criteras are technically also relevant to look at such as :
- High user engagement
- User satisfaction
- Low crash rates and quick resolution of identified issues
- High usage of the key features

## Analysis Plan

- **Implement Google Analytics**: This could help us to track user behaviors, such as app frequency usage, session durations, feature usages and others.
- **Implement Firebase Crashlytics**: This would help us understand the origin of crashes in our app or potential instabilities.

- **Add the app on a downloading plateform**: A primordial step we still need to complete is to add our app on a downloading plateform. This will also allow us to easily keep track of the number of downloads and the ratings.

- **Manage the cost and gain**: We should also implement a system to take account of the gain and cost of our app more easily.

## Relevant A/B testing

A/B testing can be described as [*"methodology for comparing two versions of a webpage or app against each other to determine which one performs better"*](https://www.optimizely.com/optimization-glossary/ab-testing/#:~:text=A%2FB%20testing%20(also%20known,determine%20which%20one%20performs%20better.)) The idea is thus to try different configurations and determine which one is the most efficient/understandable for the user.

Here are some ideas of A/B testing we could implement for our app:

- **App UI/UX architecture**: We will mostly focus on the screen adjustment, how the screens are linked to each other and the global UI and UX flows. For example, we would like to verify how easily a new user can achieve a goal by only looking at the UI (without any previous explanation).
- **UI elements**: This part will focus more on smaller UI elements, such as the navigation bars, the drawer menus, the settings buttons or even texts on the elements (headline, text size). We would like to verify that each icon/element is understandable and easy to use for the users.
- **Tutorial**: We could also implement a tutorial for the app and determine how useful it could be for a new user.
- **Subscription option**: We could also try different models for our financial option. For example, we could have a subscription plan that unlocks new features or another one that allows to create more groups/topics....
- **Features relevance**: We could unlock only specific features and see how the users percieve this change. Does it feel like something is missing ? Is it harder to navigate in the app ? This could help us determine what are the necessary features and which one could be locked behind a subscription plan. We could also perform other measurements and see what are the most used/relevant features.